Hello everyone and welcome to the solution for implementing it.
Q. using two stacks interview problem.
So again the problem statement was given the stat class below implement a q class using two stacks and
you were allowed to use a python list data structure as your stack.
So what was the solution.
Go ahead and zoom in a bit.
Wups So the key insight is that a stack reverses the order while a queue doesn't.
When you're pulling stuff out of it.
So that was the main key.
And we mentioned that when we were going over the stack theory lecture to always keep that in mind as
you pull stuff out of a stack you reversing the order of which you put them in.
So a sequence of elements pushed onto a stack Raemer becomes reversed when you pop them out.
So consequently two stacks chained together will return elements in the same order since reversed order
reversed again is original order.
So that's why this is such a classic interview problem.
It really checks that you understand what both stack and queue is.
So we use it in stack that we fill when an element is on cue or in Q and the dequeue operation takes
elements from it out stack if the stack is empty.
We pop all elements from the stack and push them into the stack.
So you're given some filler code.
We go and zoom out here.
Given this class and then two stacks and you're supposed to fill in the on Kiran Q And then the dequeue
.
So we're going to do is rename the stacks into something that will show the logic a little better we'll
have it in stack and in out stack.
OK.
So we're going to do for on cue or adding elements into that Q is say self dots in stack and we'll append
that elements.
So that's all we have to do for the on cue.
We just take the stack and then appendant basically pushing it onto the top end of the dequeue is where
we have to do that double reversal.
So we're going to say if not self outs stack
while self-taught in stack and this is basically the checks for the empties we're going to do is add
the elements to the out stack to reverse the order when called.
So when I say self-taught out stack lots of pens and I'm going to append
the pot elements from the stack and then all I have to do is just return self out stack up pop.
OK.
So this is really the key insight here.
These two lines one for that instead.
You just have to append the element and the other for that Dijk you so remember that we have a stack
that's going to reverse order when a sequence of elements is pushed onto a stack or on a stack.
It's going to come back in reverse order when pot.
So that means that two stacks chained together are going to return elements in the same order since
reversed them twice.
We just reverse reverse and that's the original order.
So we're doing as we use.
We're using this in stack right here and we use that in stack when we fill in elements.
It's an acute and the dequeue operation takes elements from that out stack here.
So if the stack is empty what we're going to do is pop all elements from the stack right here and then
push them onto the stack.
OK.
So this loop is basically checking the empties for that particular piece of logic.
So using that instead we fill when an element is queued and then dequeue operation takes elements from
our stack if the stack is empty we pump all elements from the stack which is why we say here while self
in stack and then push them onto the stack.
So what we're doing in this line.
OK.
So go ahead and code out the solution.
Make sure you can do this from memory or at least from your memory.
The theory of queues and stacks is a really common interview problem.
All right thanks everyone.
And that's it for the stacks Queues and decks lectures and section of the course.
We should have gotten out of this as a full understanding of stack queues and decks how to implement
each of those and how to use their logic for interview problems.
All right thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture